Unsafe evolution speclet: back to unsafe keyword (#10091)
dotnet/csharplang: proposals/unsafe-evolution.md

are all no longer considered `unsafe`, and exist in normal C# with no requirement to be used in an `unsafe` context. Similarly, declaring a [fixed size buffer][fixed-size-buffer-declarations] or
an initialized [`stackalloc`][stack-allocation-spec] are also perfectly legal in safe C#. For all of these cases, it is only _accessing_ the memory that is unsafe.

> Importantly, these pointer relaxations apply **regardless of whether an assembly opts in** to the [updated memory safety rules](#metadata).

Reviewer: >these pointer relaxations apply [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=13&length=31)

Would we want these relaxations to apply regardless of language version as well?

Author: That doesn't seem to be decided by LDM, I can add an open question for that.

But I think we would want to gate by LangVersion. It seems that's exactly what LangVersion was invented for.

#### `sizeof`

For certain predefined types, `sizeof` has always been constant and safe ([§12.8.19][sizeof-const]) and that remains unchanged.
For other types, `sizeof` used to require unsafe context ([§24.6.9][sizeof-unsafe]) but is now safe regardless of opt-in to the updated memory safety rules.

### Overriding, inheritance, and implementation

It is a memory safety error to add `unsafe` at the member level in any override or implementation of a member that is not *requires-unsafe* originally, because callers may be using the base
definition and not see any addition of `unsafe` by a derived implementation.

### Delegates and lambdas

It is a memory safety error to convert a *requires-unsafe* member to a delegate type outside the `unsafe` context.
Delegate types and [_function types_](csharp-10.0/lambda-improvements.md#natural-function-type) cannot be *requires-unsafe*.

> It is a parse error to apply `unsafe` on a lambda symbol.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't specify parse error. The existing wording is fine and as specific as we should be.  #Closed

Author: ```suggestion
It is a compile-time error to apply `unsafe` on a lambda symbol.
```

}
```

> We propose extending this definition from textual to semantic.

Reviewer: There's a remaining mention of the attribute above (line 194) #Closed

> We propose extending this definition from textual to semantic.

Reviewer: I didn't understand what this means.

By the way, although it's hard to imagine someone doing that, the example above is another scenario that needs a way of declaring an unsafe-context on a declaration while not necessarily passing the obligation to caller. Some other scenarios in that category are declarations with `: base(...)` or `: this(...)` where that constructor is caller-unsafe. #Closed

Author: > I didn't understand what this means.

It means `unsafe` doesn't just introduce a syntactic unsafe block, but also semantic meaning for the symbol (requires-unsafe). It's actually the wording that the proposal had before we switched to attribute (since we are now switching back, I was trying to revert parts of the proposal). But I guess the sentence can be removed, it doesn't add much value.

Author: > By the way, although it's hard to imagine someone doing that, the example above is another scenario that needs a way of declaring an unsafe-context on a declaration while not necessarily passing the obligation to caller. Some other scenarios in that category are declarations with `: base(...)` or `: this(...)` where that constructor is caller-unsafe.

Yes, I know. See also "`unsafe` on types" section which mentions a similar example. I can mention this in the alternative too.

The compiler ignores `RequiresUnsafeAttribute`-marked members from assemblies that are using the legacy memory safety rules (instead, the [compat mode](#compat-mode) is used there).

> When a member is marked as `unsafe`, the compiler will synthesize a `RequiresUnsafeAttribute` application on the member in metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a non-type member is marked as `unsafe`, the compiler will synthesize a `RequiresUnsafeAttribute` application on the member in metadata.
``` #Closed

> When a member is marked as `unsafe`, the compiler will synthesize a `RequiresUnsafeAttribute` application on the member in metadata.

Reviewer: Should we check usages of `[RequiresUnsafeAttribute]` in source, or just allow them? Consider calling it out either way #Closed
